title: Aura manual
--
Aura is a CMS. It aims to make people's lives easier.

<section class='literate'>
<pre>
$ gem install aura --pre

$ aura
</pre>

h4. Installation

Assuming you have Ruby installed (at least 1.8.7), just install the gem.
</section>

h2. Getting started

<section class='literate'>
<pre>
$ aura new myproject
   create  myproject/
   create    config.ru
   create    init.rb
   create    app/
   create      models/
   create        page.rb.example
   ...
</pre>

h4. Start a new project

Start a new project using "@aura new@":aura_new.html. This creates a folder with a simple bare-bone Aura project.
</section>

<section class='literate'>
<pre>
$ cd myproject/
$ bundle install
  ...
</pre>

h4. Install the needed gems

Using Bundler, this is pretty easy.
</section>

<section class='literate'>
<pre>
$ thin start
* Starting server...
>> Thin web server (v1.2.11 codename Bat-Shit Crazy)
>> Maximum connections set to 1024
>> Listening on 0.0.0.0:4833, CTRL+C to stop
</pre>

h4. Start it up

Your app is a Rack app. Visit *http://localhost:4833* to see it. (Default user is `test@sinefunc.com`/`password`)
</section>

h2. Features

* **For designers** and site builders:
** Be in full control of markup, and write in whatever template language you're comfortable with.
** Build custom page types that will the custom fields you need with the template you define.

* **For site owners:**
** Use a CMS with an interface you will love, rather than put up with.

* **For developers:**
** Easy-to-extend with a simple extension system.
** Built on top of "Sinatra"!http://sinatrarb.com, a tried and tested microframework.

<a class='github-link' href="http://github.com/aura-cms/aura">Source code</a>
